Advertisement Supported by On Colleges By Marc Tracy In the 1840s, the most bitter rivalry in American sports might have been between the crew teams from Harvard and Yale, and it boiled over when, for one race, Harvard enlisted a nonstudent to be its coxswain. The unsporting ringer led the universities to put rowing under faculty control, and eventually, according to Rodney K. Smith, a law professor who directs Utah Valley University’s Center for Constitutional Studies, helped lead to a national regulatory body for intercollegiate athletics. For reasons of both high principle and competitive parity, then, the purpose of that governing body, the N.C.A.A., has been to ensure that all players are not only students but, as a favorite phrase of the association’s puts it, “students first” — that is, full-timers earnestly and successfully making their way toward degrees. Such background only heightens the bizarre quality of the N.C.A.A.’s case against the University of North Carolina, in which the association’s Committee on Infractions is expected to announce a ruling in the next few weeks. What happened at North Carolina seems to have directly subverted college sports’s central mission of staging athletics as a mere component of the players’ educations. And yet it is possible that, when it comes to N.C.A.A. sanctions, North Carolina could get away with failing to do just that. The scandal, brought to light by a Raleigh newspaper, The News & Observer, involved nearly 200 classes in the African and Afro-American Studies Department over almost 20 years administered mainly by a non-faculty staff member named Deborah Crowder. According to the university-commissioned Wainstein Report on the scandal (which the university has acknowledged, with a few quibbles), these so-called paper classes regularly required no attendance; were often falsely advertised and laxly graded; and were disproportionately populated by athletes, particularly those playing the lucrative sports of football and men’s basketball. Those athletes were sometimes steered there by counselors who knew the courses required little work for good grades. The academic dishonesty is an unprecedented black mark on North Carolina, one of the country’s most prestigious universities. The university’s accreditation body briefly took the extraordinary step of placing the institution on probation, and its teams could still face sanctions like lost scholarships, vacated titles and postseason bans. The allegations seem to fit squarely within the N.C.A.A.’s purview: stocking deliberately easy classes with athletes, as much to keep them eligible as to educate them. The Wainstein Report implied that a department chair, a senior associate athletic director and several football coaches all knew, or should have known, something fishy was taking place. “Most people, even if they don’t know the bylaws and the facts, if they just got those headline descriptions of what the case is, they would think something is not right,” said Gene Marsh, a former Committee on Infractions leader who now works at the law firm Jackson Lewis. But those with deep knowledge of N.C.A.A. rules say that the case is not so clear cut. North Carolina has not self-imposed punishments — the customary tactic for colleges that know they have been caught dead-to-rights. It is fighting back relentlessly. And, according to several experts, it may escape punishment. “The public is definitely going to hammer the N.C.A.A. if they don’t do something,” said Joshua R. Smith, the assistant athletic director for compliance at Eastern Illinois University. “You’re looking at bogus classes. The N.C.A.A. wants to take back their reputation that they really are academically focused first, putting the student ahead of the athlete, and this is an issue where they can do that.” However, Smith added, “If you look deeper, it’s difficult to say what bylaw exactly comes up that they should be punished for.” North Carolina has said that the fraud was confined to its academic side, over which the N.C.A.A. has no claim. Though convenient, this stance is consistent with profoundly held principles of scholarly independence. North Carolina even has cited N.C.A.A. President Mark Emmert, who in 2015 said, “It’s ultimately up to universities to determine whether or not the courses for which they’re giving credit, the degrees for which they’re passing out diplomas, live up to the academic standards of higher education.” This defense also plausibly lines up with the facts in the case (the athletics counselors, for instance, worked for the College of Arts and Sciences, not the athletic department). In many ways, this case seems unlike any other. It has gone on unusually long — more than six years since the first reports. North Carolina has disputed aspects of the Wainstein Report it commissioned. But the fact that North Carolina could go free after apparently violating the spirit, if not the letter, of college sports law also reflects a fundamental tension in the N.C.A.A.’s conception that college athletes are students like any others. The N.C.A.A. is used to critics trying to tie it up in this logic by asking why, if this is so, college cellists may be paid but college running backs may not. North Carolina’s novel — and perhaps cynical — gambit was to go in the other direction, arguing that if the N.C.A.A. truly wants to be consistent, it should let what happened slide. “There is no bylaw,” the university’s attorneys wrote in a response to enforcement officials, “that treats student-athletes differently than nonathlete students by preventing them from taking ‘easy’ courses to balance their schedules, to boost their G.P.A.s or to remain eligible. “Indeed,” they added, “if there were such a rule, surely every institution in the N.C.A.A. would need to report violations.” The N.C.A.A. has argued the misconduct at North Carolina falls under its jurisdiction. It has pointed to Crowder’s close relationship to the athletics counselors, and it has cited emails in which the counselors requested spots for athletes, arguing that “the dramatically high student-athlete enrollment is a clear manifestation and illustration of the extra benefit of preferential access.” But college athletes are not barred from receiving extra benefits. They are only barred from receiving extra benefits that the N.C.A.A. has decided are illicit. In fact, the N.C.A.A. not only allows but requires colleges to furnish athletes with academic counseling services. “There are a number of benefits athletes receive through athletics,” said Stephen W. Dittmore, a sports management professor at the University of Arkansas. “Academic counselors are one of those. And the job of an academic counselor is to help athletes matriculate their way to a degree.” The N.C.A.A., in prioritizing lowering time-demands on athletes, seems to acknowledge that playing big-time college sports exacts a toll that most students do not face. In numerous ways, it has sought to support athletes — through more expansive meal allowances, family travel reimbursements, extra cost-of-attendance money — in order to recognize, if not compensate, them for their extra troubles. In the era of million-dollar sponsorships and billion-dollar TV deals, the student-athlete is a walking cognitive dissonance, and the North Carolina case has heightened the contradictions nearly to the breaking point.  OpinionJoe Nocera  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
