Advertisement Supported by By Kevin Draper John Skipper, the former president of ESPN, has been hired as the executive chairman of the sports media company Perform Group, according to a release from the company. Less than six months after his resignation from ESPN, Skipper will soon be competing against his former longtime employer. Skipper was with ESPN for over 20 years and its president for six years. He resigned in December, citing a “substance addiction.” In March, he revealed to The Hollywood Reporter that he’d had a cocaine problem and received unspecified treatment, and that his resignation followed an extortion attempt by somebody he had bought drugs from. The Perform Group is based in London, with offices around the world. It has a hand in just about every facet of the sports media business. Perform owns sports publications, including The Sporting News and Goal in the United States; it has extensive investments in sports data, including Opta, a leader in statistical analysis for soccer; it partners with leagues, including the N.F.L., to sell sports rights worldwide, and it owns DAZN, a streaming sports subscription service. The release announcing Skipper’s appointment said that he would oversee all of Perform’s operations and strategy, but both his statement and that of Simon Denyer, the founder and chief executive of Perform, implied that Skipper would be focusing on DAZN. “Perform Group’s platform and expertise, coupled with its success in launching subscription services in Germany, Japan and Canada provides a model we intend to replicate around the world,” Skipper said. DAZN, pronounced “Da Zone,” has been compared to Netflix. Available in five countries — Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Japan and Canada — DAZN gives sports fans access to thousands of live sports events for a monthly subscription fee, usually around $20. In Japan, DAZN cornered much of the live sports market, acquiring rights to show the J.League, games of 11 of the 12 Nippon Professional Baseball teams, most of the popular soccer leagues worldwide, the N.F.L. and the N.B.A. In Austria and Germany it has the rights to show Bundesliga highlights but will show the Champions League next year. DAZN began in Canada last year with N.F.L. rights but has few other top-tier rights and the rollout was plagued by technical issues. Perform has not yet announced which countries will be next as part of that global rollout, but it is unlikely that Skipper will soon be engaged in bidding wars against his former company. Most American sports rights are unavailable to be bought for several years. Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
