Advertisement Supported by By The Associated Press Steven Holcomb, the bobsledding star who drove to three Olympic medals after beating a disease that nearly robbed him of his eyesight, was found dead in Lake Placid, N.Y., on Saturday. He was 37. The United States Olympic Committee and U.S.A. Bobsled and Skeleton announced his death. The cause of death was unclear, but officials said there were no indications of foul play after a preliminary investigation at the Olympic Training Center, where Holcomb was found in his room. An autopsy was tentatively scheduled for Sunday. A native of Park City, Utah, Holcomb was a three-time Olympian. His signature moment came in 2010 at the Vancouver Games, where he piloted his four-man sled to a victory that ended a 62-year gold medal drought for the United States in bobsled’s signature race. Holcomb also drove to bronze medals in both the two- and four-man events at the Sochi Games in 2014, and was expected to be part of the 2018 United States Olympic team headed to the Pyeongchang Games in South Korea. He also was a former world champion in both the two-man and the four-man competition. One of the world’s elite drivers, Holcomb finished second on the World Cup circuit in two-man points and third in four-man points this past season. His final victory came in Lake Placid last December, when he drove to a victory in the two-man event. Holcomb won 60 World Cup medals, along with 10 more medals at the world championships and three in the Olympics, making him one of the most decorated bobsled pilots in the world. When he teamed with Steven Langton to win the bronze medal in the two-man event at the Sochi Games in 2014, he ended another 62-year United States medal drought in that event. He was an alternate on the 2002 Olympic team and had been the driver of USA-1 — indicative of America’s best pilot — for more than a decade. In recent years, Holcomb discussed his battles with depression and a failed suicide attempt in 2007, which he wrote about in his autobiography, “But Now I See: My Journey from Blindness to Olympic Gold.” The depression, he believed, largely stemmed from his fight with a disease called keratoconus. Holcomb’s vision degenerated to the point that he was convinced that his bobsled career was ending, and his mood quickly turned bleak. His eyesight was saved in an operation that turned his 20-500 vision into something close to perfect, and his bobsled career took off from there. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
