Advertisement Supported by Global Sports By Christopher Clarey LONDON — Track and field, once the most universal of sports in reach and resonance, is now a niche diversion, outpaced long ago by the likes of soccer, basketball and tennis. But there has been nothing niche about Usain Bolt, whose winning ways and winning manner have translated to the masses like few athletes in any sport. So it has gone for nearly a decade: track and field struggles with doping, corruption and relevance while Bolt soars high above the scorched earth with a grin on his face. His ability to suspend disbelief in this rightfully skeptical era, if only in very short bursts of force-of-nature speed, has been one of the great balancing acts. But the show, Bolt insists, will come to a close in London at the world championships. They began Friday night with Bolt qualifying for the 100-meter semifinals by winning his heat after a shaky start and a lot of love from the crowd in the same stadium where he won three Olympic gold medals in 2012. “He has really been a game-changer for the sport,” said Christian Taylor, the reigning world and Olympic champion in the triple jump. “He deserves this moment in this stadium with 60,000 people roaring.” Other great athletes are pushing on, too: Roger Federer just won Wimbledon again at age 35; Tom Brady, who just turned 40, led the New England Patriots to yet another Super Bowl victory in February. But Bolt plans to call it a career shortly before his 31st birthday, which will come after these championships, on Aug. 21. Take those plans with a few grains of salt (Jamaicans like it on their mackerel). Comebacks are the coin of the realm in elite sports, often because of the coin at stake. Yet this retirement seems likely to stick for a number of good reasons. Bolt has been slowing down steadily since he set his world records of 9.58 seconds in the 100 meters and 19.19 in the 200 at the world championships in Berlin in 2009. He has been fighting injuries and chronic conditions throughout his career (scoliosis held him back in his early years), and he had another round of back problems and another visit to the German doctor Hans-Wilhelm Müller-Wohlfahrt in Munich before this farewell meet. Bolt, if you’ve watched the 2016 documentary “I Am Bolt,” is also clearly much more inspired by competing than training, much less enamored of the whole process of being a sprinter than the psychological payoff of beating everybody to the finish line with the cameras rolling. “It’s not as fun as it used to be,” Bolt says in the film. “The older I get, the less fun it is.” He longs for a normal, lazier life, although from watching him in the world’s night clubs and on the beaches of Jamaica, it seems clear that he already has been getting a taste of retirement on the installment plan. Maybe, just maybe, Bolt will realize that an unstructured existence does not provide the same fulfillment as the daily challenge of remaining the fastest man in the world. Didn’t Michael Phelps, who is to water what Bolt is to land, renege on his vow never to come back and then thrive in the pool at last year’s Olympics in Rio? Still, the odds are against a Bolt rethink. After dominating the sprints at major global championships since 2008, he truly has nothing left to prove to anyone, probably not even to himself, and that could make his exit strategy in London a perilous one. Bolt, for all his playful mugging for the camera and laid-back bonhomie, does some of his best work when he has an ax to grind. And yet in this post-Olympic season there seems to be no grudge match to be won. Andre De Grasse, the young and confident Canadian who could have been a threat, has withdrawn from the worlds with an injury. Justin Gatlin, the fast-talking American whose comments have sometimes inspired Bolt to rise up and hit the weight room, is 35 and running slower than in recent seasons. So is Bolt, whose best time coming into London in the 100 meters is just 9.95 seconds, which came in a labored performance last month in Monaco. You could almost hear the gears grinding again on Friday night as he came out of the out of the starting blocks relatively slowly before recovering to win his heat in 10.07 seconds. “I’m not very fond of these blocks,” he said. “I think these are the worst ones I’ve ever experienced. I have to get this start together, because I can’t keep doing this.” The crowd, big and enthusiastic enough to generate Olympic flashbacks, was another matter. “It felt the same,” he said of 2012. “The only thing that is different is I see a lot more Jamaicans in the crowd, which I’m happy about and I just want to make them proud so I’m looking forward to tomorrow.” Bolt has played possum and prevailed many times before. Will his luck run out before his rivals run out of time? “They’ll want to be the ones to hand him a loss on his way out, and they see that there is a little bit of a chink in the armor at this point,” said Michael Johnson, the former American sprint champion working here for the BBC. “Bolt comes into this championship much more vulnerable than he has been in any previous championship based on his time this year: one sub-10 second and it’s only 9.95. But at the same time, the field isn’t very good this year.” The American Christian Coleman, who is the reigning N.C.A.A. champion and world’s fastest man in 2017, did look dangerous on Friday, winning his heat in 10.01 while easing up in the final 20 meters. But he and the others will get just one crack at Bolt in an individual event. Bolt is running only the 100 and the 4-by-100 relay with Jamaica, next Saturday, at his farewell meet. “I think it’s going to be the same thing we’ve seen in the past,” Johnson said. “We’ll see some people close to him and see people run impressive times in other heats. But when it comes to the final, I challenge anyone to bet against him no matter what they see in the rounds.” Bolt’s decision to skip the 200, which also allows him to skip a potential duel with the South African star Wayde Van Niekerk, keeps this from being quite a full-circle moment. Bolt first made his mark as a 200-meter runner, winning the world junior title at age 15 in 2002. He was already 6-foot-5, already prodigiously fast, but to review footage of that victory is to realize how far he has come. He was raw and upright, his head cocked far to the right as he sprinted, which was in part because of his scoliosis. He came to the 100 meters much later, largely to avoid his coach Glen Mills’s plans to have him run the more brutal 400. But though he was still a neophyte at the event in 2008, he broke the world record in the 100 in New York and then eclipsed it again on a grander stage at the Olympics in Beijing. With his height and quick turnover, he offered a new paradigm. At 6-5, he can cover 100 meters in 41 strides while many other top sprinters require 44 or more. He also can generate great force as he pushes quickly off the ground: all of which has allowed him to maintain something approaching top speed for longer. In 2009, when Bolt broke the world record again in Berlin, he was running his fastest (44.72 kilometers per hour, almost 28 mph) at 68 meters while the eventual silver medalist, Tyson Gay, was at his fastest (44.10 kilometers per hour) at 55 meters. At 90 meters, Bolt was still running at 44 kilometers per hour. But top speed has proved elusive for Bolt since Berlin, because of physical wear and also, perhaps, the introduction of mandatory disqualification for false starts in 2010. Under the new rules, Bolt would never have run in the Berlin final: he had false-started in the semifinals. For now, his only failure to win a major 100-meter race came when he false-started in the final of the world championships in Daegu, South Korea, in 2011 and was disqualified. He was distraught that day, ripping off his shirt and pounding a wall in frustration. But there have been plenty of much better times since then, as he has remained undefeated in the 100 and 200 at global championships. Last chance to catch him (if you believe him): Saturday in London.   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
