Advertisement Supported by Sports of The Times By Juliet Macur JERSEY CITY — In this city just across the Hudson River from Lower Manhattan, at a high school just a few blocks from the Holland Tunnel, Bob Hurley turned tiny St. Anthony into a basketball behemoth. Eight undefeated seasons. Twenty-eight state championships. Thirteen victories in the Tournament of Champions, which pits New Jersey’s state champions from all divisions. In his 45 years as coach, Hurley and his St. Anthony Friars earned all of that — and a spot in history as one of the most successful high school basketball programs in the country. Then, in two hours on Wednesday night, it all disappeared. Not the memories. Those will stay. Everything you could hold in your hands, though, had to go. St. Anthony, a Catholic high school that opened in 1952, will close for good at the end of this month, a victim of the finances that have shuttered so many other parochial schools around the country. So on Wednesday, on what was christened Trophy Night in the invitations Hurley sent out, about 100 of the Friars’ trophies were made available to any former player who wanted them. Inside the school’s auditorium, more than 100 St. Anthony graduates and former players — many in “Once a Friar, Always a Friar” T-shirts — arrived to commiserate with Hurley, the team’s longtime coach, and to pick through the trophies and the yearbooks and the scrapbooks that were set out on long tables for the taking. “It’s weird, isn’t it?” Hurley said to one former player, who hugged the state championship trophy that he chose as his memento. “Just take whatever means something to you.” If it were up to Hurley, a Hall of Fame coach, he would take everything. The program he built has given special meaning to his life. He is a Jersey City guy and a basketball guy. And at 69, he looks back proudly not only at the teams that won big — and most did — but also at the lives he helped change. “It was a family,” Hurley said last month when I spoke to him and his wife, Chris, in their apartment overlooking the Statue of Liberty. “I’m not just saying that. If you’re a coach in an urban area, you have a big responsibility to be there for your players in every part of their life. And for us, it was such a natural thing.” For years, a sign in the school’s foyer said, “You are entering a special and safe place … and … the street stops here.” Hurley took that message seriously. He was a longtime probation officer in Jersey City, and his father was a beat cop here. He knew what happened on these streets, and he did his best to shield his players from it. “We was poor, so poor, and Coach would drive through our neighborhoods, making sure we weren’t outside when we shouldn’t be,” said Jerry Walker, who was on the Friars’ undefeated state championship team in 1989 and later played for the Nets. “We needed that.” Hurley sometimes provided the discipline they needed, too. When Walker came home after curfew one night, his mother was on the porch next to a furious-looking Hurley, who was holding a baseball bat. Walker hid in the bushes across the street until the coach left. But it was also Hurley who took Walker to a restaurant for the first time. “I remember looking down at the table setting and saying, ‘Whoa, why we have so many forks?’” said Walker, now a politician in Hudson County. “It opened up new worlds.” It was the Hurleys’ world, too. Bob and Chris raised three children here, two sons who followed their father into the basketball business and a daughter who followed him into teaching. But the Hurley living room was home to more than Hurleys. It was the headquarters for college recruiters who came calling. It was the place where Bob and Chris would hold the hands of parents who had not gone to college themselves and help them navigate their children’s life-changing options. It was where the occasional player could sleep on the couch for a night, or two or three nights, if there was a problem at home. And it was where that player could wake up to the sweet scent of Chris’s pancakes wafting from the kitchen. St. Anthony was a different kind of oasis. Yes, it gave players the opportunity to play basketball. But it also made it possible for so many to go to college. It also acted to protect some players. Ike Williams, a forward on the Friars’ 1996 state championship team, arrived at Trophy Night in his faded No. 50 jersey. Williams had transferred to St. Anthony just before his sophomore year, the same month his best friend was killed by a stray bullet in their neighborhood. “Growing up here was rough, period,” said Williams, who more recently served as one of Hurley’s assistant coaches. “My friends were hanging on corners, selling drugs. When I transferred to St. Anthony, I felt like it was God saying to me, ‘Your life is saved.’” For 10, maybe 15 years or more, St. Anthony struggled to save itself. Its staff was proud it got every single graduate a college acceptance, and prouder still that it managed to keep its tuition at about $6,000, with many students receiving financial aid. Yet it failed to keep up with growing costs. In early April, the Archdiocese of Newark told Hurley, who also served as the school’s president, that St. Anthony would have to close. When Hurley left that meeting, his icy blue eyes were filled with tears. His daughter said he broke down at various moments over the weeks that followed, including the terrible day when he broke the news to his team. Bowing to the inevitable, Hurley also began collecting the school’s basketball trophies from their perches on shelves in the hallways and in the auditorium. There were more than he thought — he even found some that had been forgotten for years, abandoned deep inside closets. Hurley’s sons didn’t make it to Trophy Night, but Chris Hurley looked out for them. She took trophies from the 1991 Metro Classic and the 1991 Tournament of Champions for Danny. For Bobby, she set aside the one from the 1986 Seagull Classic, where, as a sophomore, he was named the tournament's most valuable player. “In two years, this building will be gone,” she said, “but our memories will be scattered everywhere.” A dry-eyed Bob Hurley just soaked it all in, hugging alumni and posing for selfies as the tables emptied and two of his elementary school-age grandchildren, Gabe and Anna, played in the courtyard. He will have more time to spend with them now. More time to read the Bill O’Reilly histories he enjoys. More time to watch basketball on his 70-inch television. Giving away the trophies was the last step to this process of saying goodbye. Everything that held value to him is out of the school now, in safe hands. “We’ve had a wonderful ride, and you’re all the reason why,” he told the assembled crowd as he left Trophy Night. Then he gave a hasty thumbs-up and walked out of the door at St. Anthony, perhaps for the last time. The archdiocese has already changed the locks.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
