Advertisement Supported by Sports Briefing By The Associated Press Caeleb Dressel of the United States became the first swimmer to win three gold medals on a single night on Saturday at the world championships in Budapest. Dressel, 20, turned in a stunning performance, racing three times in about two hours — and winning each time. He started with a victory in the 50-meter freestyle, came back about a half-hour later to nearly break Michael Phelps’s world record in the 100 butterfly and closed the night by leading off a world-record performance in the mixed 4x100 free relay. The United States finished the relay in 3 minutes 19.6 seconds, beating the previous mark of 3:23.05 set by an American quartet in 2015. Dressel has six gold medals in the championships and could tie the record of seven gold medals that Phelps set at the 2007 worlds in Melbourne, Australia. Dressel will close the meet Sunday night on the 4x100 men’s medley relay team. Katie Ledecky of the United States finished her meet with five gold medals and one silver after an easy victory in the 800 free. CROATIA WINS WATER POLO GOLD Croatia beat Hungary, 8-6, in Budapest to win the men’s world water polo title a decade after it last clinched gold in the competition. Croatia, which won all six of its matches at the tournament and overcame the powerhouse Italy and the defending champion Serbia en route to the final, took an early 4-0 lead and then held off a comeback by Hungary to take the title. (REUTERS) Fans at a soccer match in the South African stadium that hosted the 2010 World Cup final tried to push through the gates, causing a stampede that killed two people. One person was badly injured and 16 others had minor injuries in the accident at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg, the stadium management said in a statement. The stampede occurred during a game between top South African teams Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs. The match continued, with many people reportedly unaware of what had happened, and Kaizer won, 1-0. Eyewitness News, a South African outlet, quoted a public safety official, Michael Sun, as saying the reported cause of the stampede was linked to disruption caused by people trying to sell or present fake tickets at a stadium gate. RED BULLS ROLL Daniel Royer scored twice, Michael Murillo had his first M.L.S. goal and the host Red Bulls beat the Montreal Impact, 4-0. Royer has six goals in his past four games. Bradley Wright-Phillips scored his seventh goal in the last nine matches, and Luis Robles had two saves in his seventh shutout of the season. The Red Bulls have won four in a row and five of their last six. ALVES PAYS OFF FOR PARIS ST.-GERMAIN The new Brazilian recruit Dani Alves powered Paris St.-Germain to its first title of the season, as P.S.G. beat Monaco, 2-1, in the Champions Trophy final in Tangiers, Morocco. It was the fifth straight trophy for Paris St.-Germain in the traditional curtain-raiser to the French season. Djibril Sidibé’s goal for Monaco at the 30-minute mark opened the scoring, but Alves stole the show by equalizing with a free kick after 51 minutes and setting up a decisive pass for Adrien Rabiot’s 63rd-minute winner.  (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) Major League Baseball plans to start the 2019 and 2020 seasons in Asia and play regular-season games in England in June of both years. The collective bargaining agreement reached in November was completed and sent to the teams Friday, and it contained a schedule for international play through 2021. London Stadium has been considered as a site for the games in England, and the Yankees and the Boston Red Sox are the most likely teams to play there in 2019. BROCK SAYS HE’S FREE OF CANCER The Hall of Fame outfielder Lou Brock, 78, said he was free of cancer more than three months after he announced that he had a type of blood cancer. Brock said that a doctor’s diagnosis that he was free of multiple myeloma was “the greatest news ever.” DODGERS EDGE THE GIANTS Corey Seager had three hits, Cody Bellinger drove in two runs and the Dodgers beat the San Francisco Giants, 2-1, in Los Angeles for their seventh straight victory. Rich Hill pitched two-hit ball into the sixth inning as the Dodgers won for the 38th time in 44 games. Kenley Jansen worked the ninth for his 26th save in 27 opportunities, striking out Jae-Gyun Hwang with runners on first and second for the final out. AROUND THE MAJORS German Marquez struck out a career-high 10 and carried a perfect game into the sixth inning as the Colorado Rockies beat the Nationals, 4-2, in Washington. Cliff Pennington drove in the tiebreaking run with a sacrifice fly in the ninth inning and the Los Angeles Angels beat the Blue Jays, 6-5, in Toronto. The Orioles acquired starting pitcher Jeremy Hellickson from the Philadelphia Phillies in a trade late Friday, a move made in hopes of keeping Baltimore in the chase for a wild-card spot. The Arizona Diamondbacks have put the All-Star left-hander Robbie Ray on the seven-day concussion disabled list after he was hit in the head by a line drive in a game against the St. Louis Cardinals. Good Samaritan stormed to the lead in the stretch and won the Jim Dandy Stakes in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., for a stunning victory in what was billed as a showdown between the winners of the first two legs of the Triple Crown. Good Samaritan, who had never raced on dirt, beat Giuseppe the Great by four-and-three-quarters lengths as two long shots finished in front. The Kentucky Derby winner Always Dreaming was third, Pavel was fourth and the Preakness winner Cloud Computing finished last in the five-horse field in the Grade II $600,000 race. Second-seeded John Isner powered past the Wimbledon quarterfinalist Gilles Müller, 6-4, 6-2, to reach the final of the ATP’s BB&T Open in Atlanta. Isner needed just 75 minutes to reach his seventh Atlanta final in eight years. He saved all four break points he faced and has won seven straight ATP matches and held for 69 straight service games dating back to his title run last week in Newport, R.I. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) SWEDISH OPEN Caroline Wozniacki was taken to three sets by Elise Mertens before winning, 7-5, 4-6, 6-2, to advance to the final in Bastad. Wozniacki fired six aces on the clay court, while her opponent had nine double faults. In the other semifinal, Katerina Siniakova defeated Caroline Garcia, 6-2, 7-5. Charley Hoffman birdied the final hole for a seven-under-par 65 to take a one-stroke lead into the final round of the Canadian Open in Oakville, Ontario. The 40-year-old Hoffman, a four-time winner on the PGA Tour, had six birdies in a seven-hole stretch that ended on No. 15. He bogeyed the par-4 17th and rebounded with a two-putt birdie on the par-5 18th. Hoffman had a 17-under 199 total. Kevin Chappell was second. He bogeyed the 18th, hitting his third shot into the water. SENIOR BRITISH OPEN Bernhard Langer shot a bogey-free six-under 65 to take a four-stroke lead in Bridgend, Wales. Langer, 59, is in position for his fifth victory in the last 10 major championships. He had a five-under 208 total. Corey Pavin was second, also shooting 65 in some afternoon rain and wind gusting to 20 miles per hour. EUROPEAN OPEN England’s Jordan Smith, who is targeting his first tour title, will take a two-shot lead into the final round in Hamburg, Germany, after shooting a second consecutive 67. Smith’s bogey-free five-under-par round left him at 12-under over all, with Sweden’s Jens Fahrbring and France’s Alexander Levy his nearest challengers, each at 10-under.  (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) WOMEN’S SCOTTISH OPEN The Hall of Famer Karrie Webb and Sei Young Kim topped the leaderboard after another rainy, cold and windy day at Dundonald Links in Irvine. Kim birdied the par-4 17th and par-5 18th in strong wind and rain for a three-under 69, and Webb birdied the 17th en route to a 70. They were at six-under 210. The second-round leader Cristie Kerr was third at four-under after a 73. Ryan Preece survived a green-white-checkered finish to win the Nascar Xfinity race in Newton, Iowa, for his first career victory. The 26-year-old Preece, running the second of a two-race deal in the No. 20 Toyota for Joe Gibbs Racing, held off Kyle Benjamin on three restarts in the final 17 laps. Preece started from the pole. Benjamin was second, followed by Brian Scott, Brennan Poole and the rookie Cole Custer. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
