Advertisement Supported by By Kevin Draper FS1, Fox’s fledgling and steeply uphill effort to compete with ESPN, on Wednesday showed off “First Things First,” a new morning opinion show hosted by the N.F.L. Hall of Famer Cris Carter, Nick Wright and Jenna Wolfe. “We know we had to be live and relevant for as many hours as possible,” Eric Shanks, president of Fox Sports, said about the new show, which will make its debut after Labor Day and be broadcast from 6:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. Eastern time. The channel’s new roster of shows is coming together amid turbulence. Missing from the media event on Wednesday was Jamie Horowitz, the Fox Sports executive in charge of programming whose vision is coming to bear in the daytime lineup. He was fired in July amid a sexual harassment inquiry. After firing Horowitz, Shanks stepped in to oversee programming. Shanks said his role was to empower and encourage the staff, and “making sure everybody has the resources to do what they need to do.” When Fox Sports debuted 23 years ago, it was “a melting pot between CBS, NBC, ESPN, kind of all coming together and creating a Fox Sports culture,” he said by way of explaining how Fox Sports employees were able to adjust smoothly after Horowitz’s firing. Shanks said he did not know the status of negotiations between Horowitz’s lawyer, Patricia Glaser, and Fox Sports, which has hired Daniel Petrocelli as outside counsel. “No idea,” Shanks said before a Fox Sports public-relations official intervened to say the network was not commenting on the negotiations. Shanks later said he had not decided whether the network needed to hire a head of programming to replace Horowitz. He could continue filling the role himself or promote someone internally. “First Things First” was conceptualized before Horowitz was fired, and is a continuation of his strategy to move FS1 away from news and highlights and toward opinion programming. But the criticism of FS1 as being full of shout shows is misplaced, according to Wright. “I look at FS1 as we have one debate show,” Wright said, referring to “Undisputed” with Skip Bayless and Shannon Sharpe, an almost exact clone of “First Take,” the show Bayless used to helm for ESPN. Wright said he considered “First Things” primarily as a show with spirited discussion, but not contrived debate, and said it would tackle social issues that intersect with sports, like the six-game suspension of Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliot for his role in a domestic violence case. Fox Sports is desperately attempting to loosen ESPN’s grip as the dominant sports media entity in the United States. ESPN regularly draws four-to-six times as many viewers during the day as FS1, though FS1 employees believe the more meaningful comparison is with ESPN2, which FS1 sometimes beats in the ratings. At the beginning of the year, ESPN moved “First Take” from ESPN2 to ESPN to shore up its ratings. This week, dueling assertions about ratings have spilled into public. Mike Mulvihill, Fox Sports’ head of research and planning, sent out a series of tweets that purported to show that FS1’s viewership has been flat this year while ESPN, ESPN2 and NBCSN’s have been down. ESPN responded with statistics showing its much higher ratings. Both networks struggle with the reality of consumers ending their cable subscriptions — and young people choosing not to sign up for cable at all — and compete over a shrinking pool of potential viewers. ESPN is making changes to its daytime lineup, too. Next year, Mike Greenberg — who previously hosted the “Mike & Mike” radio simulcast on ESPN2 — will host a new 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. show, and Bomani Jones and Pablo Torre will host a new hourlong show starting at noon, right after “First Take.” Charlie Dixon, FS1’s executive vice president for content, said the network’s attention will turn to afternoon and late-night programming. Once “First Things First” launches, the network will have a block of opinion programming from 6:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. Eastern time, with the exception of the 3:00 to 5 p.m. window. That window cannot be filled with opinion programming because FS1 broadcasts the Champions League then. But next year Turner Sports takes over the Champions League, freeing up Fox Sports’s options. “I think once Champions League is gone, that will be one of the first things we take a really hard look at,” Shanks said. The FS1 host Katie Nolan would have been a front-runner for a daily show in either the afternoon or late night slot. Her weekly show, “Garbage Time with Katie Nolan,” ran for three seasons before ending in February. “I’d love to be four or five nights a week, ideally,” she told Sporting News. “And we’re working toward that.” The network “could not be more excited about Katie Nolan’s future with FOX Sports,”  Dixon said in February. But since then she has all but disappeared from FS1. “Man I miss working,” she tweeted in May. Amid reports that she will decamp for ESPN as soon as her contract is up — her agent declined to comment — Shanks did not offer any clarity. “We’d love to keep Katie as part of the Fox Sports family, either now or in the future,” he said. But when asked why, if Fox Sports executives like Nolan, they can’t find a show for her, Shanks shrugged. “I’m wondering that question too,” he said. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
