Advertisement Supported by By Nicholas Fandos WASHINGTON — Leading congressional Republicans, confronting escalating tensions over the special counsel’s investigation, used some of the harshest language yet on Tuesday to warn President Trump against moving to undercut it. But they again stopped short of endorsing legislation to preemptively protect the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Republicans have repeatedly argued that Mr. Trump understands the consequences of removing Mr. Mueller well enough not to do so. On Tuesday, they tried to make those stakes clear. “It would be suicide for the president to want to talk about firing Mueller,” Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said on Fox Business Network. He added, “The less the president said on this whole thing, the better off he would be, the stronger his presidency would be.” Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, reiterated that he believed Mr. Mueller should be allowed to see the investigation through, but said that he saw no reason for legislators to take up bills meant to ensure the special counsel could not be fired without good cause. “I haven’t seen clear indication yet that we needed to pass something to keep him from being removed,” Mr. McConnell told reporters. “Because I don’t think that’s going to happen.” Democrats, for their part, locked in the minority in the House and the Senate, huddled behind closed doors to plot possible responses in case Mr. Trump moved to dismiss Mr. Mueller or the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, who is overseeing the investigation. Publicly, they pleaded with their Republican counterparts to take seriously Mr. Trump’s renewed assault on the investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election and potential links to his campaign. “Our Republican colleagues must not continue ignoring the elephant in the room,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, told reporters. “We Democrats are urging our Republican colleagues to work with us now — pass legislation to protect this investigation, and head off a constitutional crisis that would be devastating to this country.” For both parties, it was a routine that has grown familiar in recent months, as the special counsel’s investigation has inched closer to Mr. Trump’s inner circle and the president has heightened his criticisms of what he frequently derides as a “witch hunt” that Democrats have concocted to undermine him. But even for Mr. Trump’s Washington, Tuesday brought a dizzying set of revelations for lawmakers to keep pace with. A day earlier, F.B.I. agents, acting at the behest of federal prosecutors in Manhattan, raided the office and the hotel room of Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, seizing business records, emails and other documents. Mr. Rosenstein is said to have personally signed off on the raid, and several people briefed on the investigation said that the authorities were searching for records about payments to two women who claim they had affairs with Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump, speaking on Monday evening at the White House, called the raid a “disgraceful situation” and tied it to Mr. Mueller and Mr. Rosenstein. The president then openly mused about the possibility of firing Mr. Mueller, and associates said that Mr. Trump had privately weighed whether he should dismiss Mr. Rosenstein. “We’ll see what may happen,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Mueller on Monday. “Many people have said you should fire him.” Mr. Schumer warned that either action would leave the country on the verge of crisis. “Mr. President, any attempt to remove Rod Rosenstein will create the exact same constitutional crisis as if you fired Special Counsel Mueller,” he said. “Don’t do it, do not go down this path.” Republicans expressed confidence that such a possibility would not come to pass. “I am confident that that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, and he’s not going to do that,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, one of the few Republican lawmakers to raise the prospect of impeachment proceedings should Mr. Trump ignore warnings. Mr. Graham and a bipartisan group of senators have been working to combine competing bills meant to enact a layer of job protection for Mr. Mueller. Those measures were initially drafted in the summer, but have since languished. Senators involved in the effort said on Tuesday that they had made progress on compromise legislation that would empower a panel of federal judges to retroactively review the case for firing the special counsel and render a judgment about whether there was good cause to do so. The measure would also ensure the preservation of the special counsel’s staff and evidence during the review. “I do think it’s a bill that’s worthy of a markup in Judiciary and sending it to the floor,” said Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina and an author of the measure. Other Republicans, though, took the opposite tack, urging Mr. Trump to bring the investigation to a close. Representative Matt Gaetz, Republican of Florida and one of Mr. Trump’s biggest supporters on Capitol Hill, said the time had come to end the inquiry. “I understand the president’s frustration, and believe there is a sufficient basis for firing Rod Rosenstein, as well as the attorney general for not doing his job,” he said in a statement. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
