Advertisement Supported by On Washington By Carl Hulse WASHINGTON — When it comes to presidential nominations, the clock is working against the Trump administration and Senate Republicans in more ways than one. Frustrated over Democrats slow-walking many executive and judicial branch nominees and chewing up Senate floor time in the bargain, Republicans moved on Wednesday toward shortening stringent time requirements that can turn even a routine confirmation into a C-Span-numbing, multiday slog. In the latest escalation of a hyperpartisan struggle over nominations, Republicans would dearly like to abbreviate the confirmation timetable and deprive Democrats of one of their last remaining weapons to register opposition to Trump nominees they consider objectionable. There is another beat-the-clock aspect at work, as well. With both parties now seeing at least a possibility that Democrats could recapture the Senate in the midterm elections in November, Senate Republicans know that time could be running short on their ability to force through Trump nominees. They would like to take full advantage while they are certain to maintain control. If Democrats were to rule the Senate next year, they would no doubt be very deliberate — to say the least — about bringing to the floor Trump administration candidates for the bench and top federal agency jobs. At the same time, they would face tremendous pressure from liberal advocacy groups and constituents to stall Trump picks as payback for Republican stonewalling in 2016 of the Supreme Court nomination of Merrick B. Garland by President Barack Obama as well as their deep discontent with the quality and ideology of many nominees from this White House so far. “If Democrats take the Senate, they need to apply extreme vetting to President Trump’s nominees,” said Caroline Fredrickson, the president of the liberal American Constitution Society. “If that means none get confirmed, none get confirmed.” She said that Democrats might be able to ultimately move forward with select Trump nominees if they “are people who actually have a vision of the Constitution that is consistent with the 21st-century understanding of the United States.” Opening a new front, members of the Rules Committee approved in a party-line vote on Wednesday a change that would, in the words of Senator Roy Blunt, the Missouri Republican who leads the panel, “streamline” the somewhat convoluted process. The plan would cut the required debate time to eight hours from 30 for noncabinet-level executive branch nominees and to two hours for Federal District Court judges. The requirement would remain at 30 hours for cabinet nominees and those put forward for spots on the Supreme Court and federal appeals courts, but the change could free up considerable time. Republicans say that Democrats, by requiring Republicans to jump through all of the procedural hoops in scores of instances this year even when many Democrats ended up backing the nominees, are simply trying to tie up the Senate to thwart Republicans and Mr. Trump. “It is sort of pointless wasting time, even when we know what the outcome is going to be,” said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader. He and other Republicans say Democrats should accept the proposal offered by Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, because it is based on a similar plan in 2013 that had wide bipartisan support. But that temporary plan was instituted before multiple showdowns in the Senate procedural wars, when nominees could still be blocked if they failed to attract 60 votes. That threshold was lowered to a simple majority in 2013 by Democrats, and they say that if they now relented on debate time, they would have little recourse to challenge nominees. They also note that new disclosures that derailed the nomination of Dr. Ronny L. Jackson as the secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs illustrate the need to make sure there is sufficient time to scrutinize nominees sent over by the Trump White House. They contend that Mr. McConnell cannot hail the number of judges the Senate has confirmed and simultaneously complain about a slow pace. And they say that staff turmoil and rampant ethics issues in the Trump administration have clogged the pipeline with multiple confirmation fights for the same position, including secretary of state, secretary of health and human services, the director of the C.I.A. and now the secretary of veterans affairs. “Our Republican colleagues bemoan the pace of the nominations, but we see with the administration’s quick, sloppy vetting process that the Senate’s need to vet nominees is more important than ever before,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said Wednesday. “Just let’s look at the cabinet. It lies in shambles just 15 months into the Trump presidency.” While Democrats fought the changes, conservative activists welcomed the idea of shortening the debate time. “Today’s vote is an important step toward ending the Democrats’ weaponization of Senate procedure,” said Carrie Severino, the chief counsel for the Judicial Crisis Network. What happens now to the proposal is uncertain. With little to no Democratic support, it cannot pass the Senate under existing rules. However, Mr. McConnell could use a parliamentary tactic to impose the new requirements by a simple majority vote just as the former Senate leader Harry Reid did in 2013 to weaken the ability to filibuster executive and judicial branch nominees except for those to the Supreme Court. Mr. McConnell used the same approach in 2017 to limit the filibuster against Supreme Court nominees as he pushed Neil M. Gorsuch through to confirmation as a justice. Mr. Schumer is already warning that any attempt by Republicans to unilaterally change confirmation debate rules would doom promising new bipartisan talks aimed at restoring the Senate’s ability to consider appropriations bills — talks that leaders in both parties consider crucial to getting the Senate back on track legislatively. As with nearly all things in the Senate, lawmakers will probably let the proposal simmer as Republicans continue to try to build a case against Democrats. If Mr. McConnell and his colleagues decide to move aggressively against Democrats, they will want to be able to say they tried to reach an accommodation. But if the election nears and stalled nominees are still piling up because of Democratic resistance, Republicans may resort to extraordinary measures to push the president’s pick through while they are sure they still can. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
