Advertisement Supported by By Sheryl Gay Stolberg WASHINGTON — Speaker Paul D. Ryan, a fierce believer in America as a land of immigrants, recently attended a dinner party with a so-called Dreamer. When she pleaded with him to help young undocumented immigrants like herself gain legal status, he hesitated — the House, he said, would pass only legislation that President Trump would sign. He again held back last month after the leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee confronted him over their conclusion that Republican aides on the House Intelligence Committee had leaked the private text messages of a senior senator to Fox News. The senators asked for no specific action, and Mr. Ryan offered none. But when Mr. Trump challenged Republican free-trade orthodoxy, Mr. Ryan — a fervent advocate of trade accords for decades — had to respond, albeit four days later and through his press secretary. The speaker, his spokeswoman said, was “extremely worried about the consequences of a trade war” that could be sparked by the president’s steel and aluminum tariffs. On one contentious issue after another — the investigation of Russian interference in American elections, trade, immigration and gun control — a speaker who rose to prominence as an outspoken, almost brash leader, determined to bring his party along with his vision of governance, has receded. Instead, he wields his gavel gingerly. Even on one of his signature issues, free trade, he has mostly worked behind the scenes to change the president’s mind. “I think Ryan’s expectations had to be dramatically reduced when Trump became president,” said Peter Wehner, a onetime adviser to former President George W. Bush who is close to the speaker. “I think in a lot of ways he was forced into a defensive posture rather than an offensive posture.” To supporters like Mr. Wehner, Mr. Ryan’s approach is pure pragmatism and smart politics. Facing a divided Republican conference and a mercurial president of his party, they say, he has little choice but to curb some of his own instincts, work behind the scenes and steer Mr. Trump gently. He also must guide House Republicans into a very difficult midterm election campaign, where his main job is to ensure that vulnerable members get re-elected. And those close to Mr. Ryan note that, with the exception of trade, he has not had serious policy disagreements with the president. But Mr. Ryan had modeled himself as a different kind of leader, the youthful face of a new brand of conservatism that was to broaden his party’s appeal and move it beyond 1980s-style Reaganism. His 2012 run for vice president lifted his national profile and fortified his standing. So to critics, the leader once described as “the intellectual center of Republicans in the House” has abandoned principles to hang onto a job he ostensibly never wanted. “I’m tired of saying deep in his heart there is a different Paul Ryan,” said Charles J. Sykes, a conservative commentator and former radio host in Mr. Ryan’s home state of Wisconsin, who for years promoted Mr. Ryan as a potential presidential candidate. Conservative critiques of Mr. Trump, from senators such as Jeff Flake of Arizona and Ben Sasse of Nebraska, have gone beyond policy disagreements, to temperament, defenses of democratic institutions and law enforcement, and the conduct of foreign policy. And other Republican leaders are speaking out. John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, is giving almost daily speeches on the Senate floor pushing for action on a modest but bipartisan bill to fortify the existing background check system for gun purchases. Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the chairman of the Finance Committee and a loud supporter of Mr. Trump, nonetheless scorched his tariffs as “a tax hike the American people don’t need and can’t afford.” Mr. Ryan has repeatedly urged Mr. Trump to abandon the tariffs in private, according to one person familiar with their conversations. In public, he has held his tongue. He declined to be interviewed. “I always imagined that there was room for an alternative conservative vision to Trumpism, and Paul Ryan was ideally suited to be that leader of a non-Trumpist conservative Republican Party, but he’s chosen not to assume that role,” Mr. Sykes said. “It’s very disappointing to see he’s become so comfortable as an ally and an enabler of Trump.” For Democrats, the speaker’s deference to Mr. Trump is the stuff of ridicule — and a constitutional dereliction of duty by the man three steps from the presidency. “Can you imagine Tip O’Neill or Sam Rayburn or any of the portraits in this gallery saying, ‘I don’t know whether I can be for that, I’ve got to go down the street and ask permission of the president’?” asked Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, referring to previous speakers whose portraits hang just outside the House chamber. To be sure, Mr. Ryan has had some achievements, notably the rewrite of the federal tax code, which for the speaker marked the realization of a long-held dream. He pushed a repeal of the Affordable Care Act through the House, only to see it die in the Senate. And he helped negotiate a two-year budget deal that should bring some peace to Washington even as it balloons federal spending. “Speaker Ryan has taken on all the challenges of the modern speakership and deftly kept the conference united while advancing an historic conservative agenda,” said Mr. Ryan’s spokeswoman, AshLee Strong. She cited in particular the tax code rewrite and the budget deal’s provisions for “the rebuilding of our depleted military.” Mr. Ryan has not always been so deferential. When Mr. Trump attacked a Mexican-American judge during the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Ryan called the comments the “textbook definition of a racist comment.” When the infamous Access Hollywood tape came out, showing Mr. Trump boasting of sexually assaulting women, Mr. Ryan saw to it that Mr. Trump was disinvited to a rally in Wisconsin. “They’re from entirely different worlds,” Mr. Wehner said. “That said, Ryan knows he has to deal with Trump, and Trump has probably figured out he has to rely on Ryan.” Now 48, Mr. Ryan became the youngest speaker since 1869 when he was elected to the post in the fall of 2015, replacing John A. Boehner, who was effectively pushed out by conservatives in his unruly conference. Mr. Ryan told his colleagues then that he would accept the speakership only if all factions would unite behind him. To a certain extent, he has succeeded. But in the name of unity, he has governed with a light hand. Last month, the leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee confronted Mr. Ryan after they concluded that the House Intelligence Committee had leaked a senator’s private texts — a serious breach of protocol. Although the senators raised concerns about the direction of the committee under its chairman, Devin Nunes of California, Mr. Ryan apparently chose not to intervene. “The speaker heard the senators on their concerns and encouraged them to take them up directly with their counterparts,” said his spokeswoman, Ms. Strong. If Mr. Ryan is known for one quality, House Republicans say, it is his willingness to listen. Members of his conference view him as “inclusive and fair,” said Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania. But in a chamber where 218 votes are required to pass legislation, Mr. Ryan still faces the same fundamental problem as his predecessor: He has difficulty bringing his fractious conference together. That means he must watch his step. Unlike Representative Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader, who was speaker from 2007 to 2011, he is not a forceful presence in the House chamber. As speaker, Ms. Pelosi ruled the House with an iron fist, guiding dozens of bills large and small into law. She engineered passage of even doomed bills like a climate change bill that died in the Senate — and likely cost Democrats seats in the 2010 Republican landslide. She emerged as the undisputable face of her caucus, to some members’ chagrin. That is not Mr. Ryan’s style. “It’s hard for anyone be a strong speaker in the traditional sense around here because the speaker is only as strong as his conference allows him to be,” Mr. Dent said. “And because on many issues the speaker cannot get 218 Republican votes, that weakens his position.” Apart from the tax overhaul, that has made for narrow legislative proposals. With Republicans under intense pressure to address gun violence after the high school massacre in Parkland, Fla., Mr. Ryan swatted away any suggestion last week that the House would take expansive action. The chamber has already adopted a measure to make modest changes to the national instant background check database, coupled with a measure pushed by the gun lobby to expand the reach of concealed weapons permits. The speaker said Republican leaders now are waiting for the Senate to act. “I’m not going to micromanage this,” he said at a news conference. But there are consequences to Mr. Ryan’s low-key style. Big issues like immigration are languishing with no resolution in sight. Causes that were once Mr. Ryan’s signature fights — an exploding budget deficit, soaring Medicare and Social Security spending and an entrenched welfare state — are on nobody’s must-do list. Even Mr. Boehner, never viewed as a policymaking powerhouse, at least tried to negotiate a “grand bargain” with the White House that was to slow entitlement spending, cut other parts of the government and raise revenue to balance the budget. Mr. Ryan’s break with Mr. Trump on trade came only after several other Republicans made clear that they were not standing by the president. Republicans are running for re-election on the strength of the economy, hoping that voters credit their policies, especially the tax cuts. But a trade war marked by a spike in consumer prices could jeopardize their survival strategy. To Representative Brian Mast, Republican of Florida and a combat veteran who lost both his legs in Afghanistan, Mr. Ryan’s suggestion that the House wait for the Senate to act on guns is not good enough after the Parkland slaughter. “If we believe that tax reform is a do-or-die issue that we have to get done but we can’t say that protecting our kids is that same kind of issue, then that’s not leadership,” said Mr. Mast, who backed an assault weapons ban after the bloodshed in Parkland. Conservatives, meanwhile, have put Mr. Ryan on notice that he does not have free rein. Representative Mark Meadows of North Carolina, the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, was instrumental in the ouster of Mr. Boehner, and he suggested last month that a misstep on immigration in particular could cost Mr. Ryan his job. “I can say that it is a defining moment for this speaker,” Mr. Meadows said then. “If he gets it wrong, it will have consequences for him.” Follow Sheryl Gay Stolberg on Twitter: @SherylNYT.     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
