Advertisement Supported by By Emily Cochrane WASHINGTON — The New York Times on Tuesday received four George Polk Awards, the most of any news organization, for reporting on the Russia investigation and Harvey Weinstein and the #MeToo movement, as well as for photography and the opinion column of Gail Collins. Breaking with tradition, the winners were announced Tuesday at a news conference at the National Press Club in Washington, in advance of an official ceremony handing out the honors at a luncheon in New York in April. “Given all the pressures now that news organizations are under,” said John Darnton, the curator of the awards, “we thought it made sense to emphasize the amazing work our journalists do.” “The press rose to the challenge,” he added. “We need to celebrate the good work that it does.” In all, journalists representing more than a dozen news organizations were recognized for reporting. Three nontraditional publications — Vice News, The Intercept and BuzzFeed News — won awards for the first time, Mr. Darnton said. The awards, which are given out by Long Island University, are named in memory of George Polk, a CBS correspondent murdered while covering the Greek Civil War in 1948. A special award given for coverage of connections between the Trump campaign and Russia was shared between staffs at The Washington Post and The Times. The national reporting award, given for exposing decades of sexual assault allegations and harassment against Mr. Weinstein, the Hollywood producer, was shared by Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey of The Times and Ronan Farrow of The New Yorker. Stephanie McCrummen, Beth Reinhard and Alice Crites of The Post won the political reporting award after they disclosed that Roy S. Moore, the defeated Alabama Senate candidate, faced allegations of sexual harassment and misconduct with teenagers when he was a district attorney. The foreign reporting award was given to Iona Craig of The Intercept for her coverage of casualties and destruction after a Navy SEAL raid on a village in Yemen. The local reporting award was given to Melissa Segura of BuzzFeed News, who documented allegations that a Chicago police officer had framed dozens of innocent people for murder. The immigration reporting award was shared between María Pérez of The Naples Daily News, who reported how Florida companies hired undocumented immigrants to avoid having to compensate them for dangerous jobs, and Antonia Noori Farzan and Joseph Flaherty of Phoenix New Times, who reported that Phoenix Motel 6 locations gave nightly guest rosters to Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officers. For a second consecutive year, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, a global network of more than 200 journalists who collaborate on reporting, won the financial reporting award for investigating how wealthy people and companies evade taxes. Nina Martin of ProPublica and Renee Montagne of NPR won the medical reporting award for a story published by the two outlets that documented and explained the high maternal death rate in the United States. The photography award recognized Adam Dean and Tomas Munita of The Times, who documented the Rohingya refugees fleeing Myanmar and the conditions they faced in Bangladeshi refugee camps. Ben Taub of The New Yorker received the magazine reporting award for documenting the shrinkage of Lake Chad in Africa and the impact on the neighboring people. Elle Reeve of Vice News Tonight on HBO was recognized with the national television reporting award for her documentation of the white nationalist leaders who led the deadly rally in Charlottesville, Va., and the protests that followed. The foreign television reporting award was given to Nima Elbagir and Raja Razek of CNN, who uncovered a hidden slave auction of African refugees in Libya. David Begnaud of CBS News received the public service award for his work covering the destruction in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria struck in September and how limited government assistance hindered the island’s recovery in the storm’s aftermath. Ms. Collins was recognized with the commentary award for her columns about American politics and culture.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
