Advertisement Supported by By Maggie Haberman WASHINGTON — Vice President Mike Pence has hired Jon Lerner, a veteran Republican pollster who is a deputy for the United Nations ambassador, Nikki R. Haley, as his national security adviser, a spokeswoman for Mr. Pence said on Thursday evening. Mr. Lerner will continue to work with Ms. Haley while advising Mr. Pence “full time,” according to Alyssa Farah, the vice president’s spokeswoman. The unusual arrangement, reported on Thursday by The Washington Post, gives Mr. Pence and Ms. Haley a single key voice on national security. The move comes during a week of major upheaval for President Trump’s own national security team. John R. Bolton took over as national security adviser on Monday and immediately began shaking up the ranks, pushing out Thomas P. Bossert, the president’s chief adviser on homeland security, on Tuesday. On Thursday, Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director whom Mr. Trump has nominated for secretary of state, underwent a Senate confirmation hearing. Mr. Lerner managed Ms. Haley’s successful campaign for governor of South Carolina in 2010, and is one of her closest advisers. She insisted on having Mr. Lerner join her when she went to the United Nations. Since then, he has worked with several White House officials on national security issues, one West Wing official said. Outside of his time at the United Nations, Mr. Lerner has held no national security positions, and as a pollster, he has worked for some previous Trump opponents. He advised the “super PAC” supporting Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, during the 2016 presidential primary. He also advises the anti-tax Club for Growth, which ran several ads denouncing Mr. Trump during the primaries. It was unclear whether Mr. Trump was aware of the move. A spokeswoman for the president did not respond to an email seeking comment. But one White House official said Mr. Lerner had been supported for the role by Mr. Bolton and Mr. Pompeo. The official added that Mr. Lerner had vocally backed Mr. Trump’s “America First” agenda. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
