Advertisement Supported by By Michael D. Shear WASHINGTON — The White House challenged reports that Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, the president’s doctor, had been involved in a drunken driving crash, citing on Friday what it said was a thorough review of vehicle incident reports conducted by administration officials. On Wednesday, Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, released a list of accusations against Dr. Jackson, including a claim that he had “wrecked” a government car after getting drunk at a Secret Service goodbye party. At the time Mr. Tester released the list, Dr. Jackson was President Trump’s nominee to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs. Dr. Jackson denied the allegations, but later withdrew from consideration for the cabinet post amid a torrent of other, mostly anonymous, accusations, including accounts that he loosely distributed drugs to White House officials and was a bully to his staff in the White House medical unit. Raj Shah, a deputy White House press secretary, said Friday that after Mr. Tester’s accusations, officials searched all of the government databases that contain records of accidents involving government vehicles, including at the General Services Administration. He called it a “comprehensive search” for any crashes involving Dr. Jackson and a government vehicle. Mr. Shah said that the search revealed three episodes, none of which resembled the crash described by Mr. Tester. In one episode, Mr. Shah said that Dr. Jackson was rear-ended, resulting in a fender bender. In another, a bus sideswiped a side mirror on Dr. Jackson’s car, according to Mr. Shah. The third case was an episode of road rage, Mr. Shah said, in which another person punched through a window on Dr. Jackson’s car. None sounded like the accusation contained in the document distributed by Mr. Tester: “At a Secret Service going-away party, Jackson got drunk and wrecked a government vehicle.” That allegation was widely reported by news organizations at the time as lawmakers from both parties expressed concern and indefinitely delayed Dr. Jackson’s confirmation hearing. A spokeswoman for Mr. Tester declined to comment on Friday night. It was not clear whether the White House’s records search might have missed an episode like the one on Mr. Tester’s list of accusations, or if such an episode might have gone unreported. But White House officials said it would be inconceivable for serious damage to a government vehicle to escape notice and not be recorded. On Friday, Mr. Shah echoed earlier comments by Mr. Trump criticizing Mr. Tester — and the news media — for distributing anonymous accusations about the doctor. “Senator Jon Tester engaged in character assassination against a decorated rear admiral in the United States Navy, and he didn’t have a shred of evidence to back it up,” Mr. Shah said. Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
