Advertisement Supported by By Rebecca R. Ruiz The Beverly Hills lawyer who represented two women who were paid in 2016 to keep quiet about their alleged affairs with Donald J. Trump has been drawn into the federal investigation focused on Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer and fixer. That lawyer, Keith M. Davidson — who finalized another legal agreement with Mr. Cohen in recent months — was contacted by federal authorities in the wake of this month’s raid on Mr. Cohen’s Manhattan office and has shared records with investigators, a spokesman said. “Mr. Davidson has been contacted by the federal authorities regarding the Michael Cohen probe in the Southern District of New York,” the spokesman, Dave Wedge, said on Friday. “Mr. Davidson was asked to provide certain limited electronic information. He has done so and will continue to cooperate to the fullest extent possible under the law.” Mr. Davidson has reached multiple agreements with Mr. Cohen — one of them negotiated in late 2017, when the men brokered the silence of a Playboy model who had had an affair with a major Republican donor and Trump ally. Mr. Cohen also referred business to Mr. Davidson after their earlier dealings leading up to the 2016 presidential election. In 2016, Mr. Davidson represented both the pornographic-film actress Stormy Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, and the former Playboy model Karen McDougal in two separate legal agreements that required each woman to keep silent about an alleged sexual relationship with Mr. Trump. Ms. Clifford, who received $130,000 from Mr. Cohen weeks before the election, has sued him, seeking to be released from that agreement, which her lawyer has argued is invalid because Mr. Trump did not sign the contract. Ms. McDougal similarly sued American Media Inc., the media company that had paid her $150,000 for the rights to her story, arguing that she was deceived into accepting the terms. She said that Mr. Davidson, acting as her own lawyer, inappropriately pressured her and secretly colluded with Mr. Cohen, who was not technically part of the negotiation. This week, A.M.I., the parent company of The National Enquirer, freed her from that agreement. Yet another former Playboy model was represented by Mr. Davidson in recent months, as he negotiated another agreement with Mr. Cohen. Under that contract, Elliott Broidy, the deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee, agreed late last year to pay $1.6 million to the woman, who had become pregnant during an affair with Mr. Broidy. Mr. Broidy resigned last week after reports of the agreement emerged. Like Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal, the woman who settled with Mr. Broidy has sought a new lawyer and is no longer represented by Mr. Davidson. Mr. Davidson’s past client list has included the professional athletes Jalen Rose and Manny Pacquiao, as well as the sex-tape cases of the “Austin Powers” actor Verne Troyer, the wrestler Hulk Hogan and the onetime Playboy model and MTV host Tila Tequila. Mr. Davidson has called Mr. Cohen a friend, and this month he defended his professional integrity to CNN, telling the network that Mr. Cohen had encouraged him to speak out. Mr. Wedge, the spokesman, called the men’s relationship “purely professional” and said they had met in person only a handful of times. “He is one of hundreds, if not thousands, of lawyers Attorney Davidson has dealt with over his 18 years as a lawyer.” The investigators who have sought information from him are working separately from the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, though the special counsel’s office referred certain information to them. Among the evidence that the authorities in New York have seized are recordings of conversations that Mr. Cohen secretly made. Mr. Davidson, who works out of two offices in Southern California, would need to have agreed to Mr. Cohen recording any phone calls they may have had, as California law requires that both people involved in a conversation consent. “Attorney Davidson never consented to any recordings of his conversations with Mr. Cohen,” Mr. Wedge said. “If they in fact do exist, Attorney Davidson will pursue all his legal rights under the law.” Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
