Advertisement Supported by Was President Trump’s travel ban too broad? Did it amount to a ‘Muslim ban’? Is it the courts’ place to second-guess the president? This and other questions were among those that the Supreme Court contended with. By Adam Liptak The Supreme Court on Wednesday heard arguments on President Trump’s third travel ban — perhaps the most contentious case they’ll hear this term.  [Read our coverage of the oral arguments »] The case, Trump v. Hawaii, No. 17-965, was argued for the Trump administration by Noel J. Francisco, the solicitor general, and for the state of Hawaii by Neal K. Katyal. The full transcript is available here. What follows is a selection of some of the questions the justices grappled with. NOEL J. FRANCISCO, THE SOLICITOR GENERAL: It’s up to the executive branch to set it up.  It’s up to the executive branch to maintain it. And it’s up to the executive branch to constantly improve it. Mr. Francisco insisted that the details of immigration policy were for the president to decide. JUSTICE ELENA KAGAN: So let’s say in some future time a —  a president gets elected who is a vehement anti-Semite and says all kinds of denigrating comments about Jews and provokes a lot of resentment and hatred over the course of a campaign and in his presidency and, in the course of that, asks his staff or his cabinet members to issue a proc — to issue recommendations so that he can issue a proclamation of this kind, and they dot all the i’s and they cross all the t’s. And what emerges — and, again, in the context of this virulent anti-Semitism — what emerges is a proclamation that says no one shall enter from Israel.  This colorful and provocative question from Justice Kagan cut to the heart of the case.  How much deference is owed a president who harbors illegitimate motives for what may be an otherwise permissible policy? MR. FRANCISCO: But if his cabinet were to actually come to him and say, Mr. President, there is honestly a national security risk here and you have to act, I think then that the president would be allowed to follow that advice even if in his private heart of hearts, he also harbored animus.  Mr. Francisco gave a forthright answer to what he called a very hard question from Justice Kagan. JUSTICE SONIA SOTOMAYOR: I thought that the government had kept confidential and refused to share, either with the litigants or the courts, exactly what was done, how, what the evaluation and how —  The administration says the latest travel ban was the result of careful study.  Justice Sotomayor pointed out that the underlying report has not been made public. MR. FRANCISCO: First of all, I think that the proclamation is very transparent and lays out in great detail both the process and the substance upon which the proclamation is based.  And I think that under the duty of regularity or good faith, or whatever you want to call it, that one branch of the government owes to another coequal branch of the government, there is a very strong presumption that what is being set out there is the truth.  Mr. Francisco responded that the administration had provided a great deal of information about the basis for the latest travel ban and was entitled to considerable deference. MR. FRANCISCO: The first is that the president’s cabinet, just like all of us here, is duty-bound to protect and defend the Constitution.  So I would expect that if any cabinet member were given that order, that cabinet member would refuse to comply or resign in the face of a plainly unconstitutional order.  Mr. Francisco said that members of an administration would violate the Constitution by aiding a president in promulgating a discriminatory policy. MR. FRANCISCO: And we are very much of the view that campaign statements are made by a private citizen before he takes the oath of office and before, under the Opinions Clause of the Constitution, receives the advice of his cabinet, and that those are constitutionally significant acts that mark the fundamental transformation from being a private citizen to the embodiment of the executive branch.  So that those statements should be out of bounds.  Mr. Francisco urged the justices to ignore Mr. Trump’s campaign statements.  The oath of office transformed Mr. Trump, his lawyer said. MR. FRANCISCO: This is not a so-called Muslim ban. If it were, it would be the most ineffective Muslim ban that one could possibly imagine since not only does it exclude the vast majority of the Muslim world, it also omits three Muslim-majority countries that were covered by past orders, including Iraq, Chad and Sudan.  Had the administration really wanted to ban Muslims, Mr. Francisco said, it could have done a much better job. JUSTICE SAMUEL A. ALITO JR.: I mean, there are — I think there are 50 predominantly Muslim countries in the world. Five — five countries — five predominantly Muslim countries are on this list.  The population of the — of the predominantly Muslim countries on this list make up about 8 percent of the world’s Muslim population.  Justice Alito said that the travel ban did not do a very good job of excluding Muslims. MR. KATYAL: Our statutory point to you is that if  you accept this order, you’re giving the president a power no president in 100 years has exercised, an executive proclamation that countermands Congress’s policy judgments.  He has zero examples to say that when Congress has stepped into the space and solved the exact problem, that the president can then come in and say: No, I want a different solution.  Mr. Katyal, representing the challengers, stressed what he said was the unusual breadth of the travel ban. JUSTICE ANTHONY M. KENNEDY:  And your argument is that courts have the — the duty to review whether or not there is such a national contingency; that’s for the courts to do, not the president?  Justice Kennedy seemed skeptical that courts had a role to play in second-guessing the president’s national-security determinations. CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN G. ROBERTS JR.:  If your — your argument based on discrimination based on the campaign statements, is there a statute of — the one that you do make based on the campaign statements, is there a statute of limitations on that, or is that a ban from presidential findings for the rest of the administration?  Chief Justice Roberts wanted to know whether Mr. Trump was forever disabled from issuing orders concerning immigration. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  So, if tomorrow he issues a proclamation saying he’s disavowing all those statements, then the next day he can re-enter this proclamation?  MR. KATYAL:  That’s exactly what this court said in McCreary.  This court in McCreary said, you know, the same policy can be constitutional if said — if promulgated by one entity and not by another, depending on the circumstances around it.  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS:  Is your answer to my question yes?  MR. KATYAL:  Yes.  The answer is —  Chief Justice Roberts elicits a concession: that Mr. Trump could immunize his travel ban from constitutional challenges by disavowing his earlier statements about banning Muslims. GENERAL FRANCISCO: My final point has to do with my — my brother’s recognition that, if the president were to say tomorrow that he was sorry, all of this would go away.  Well, the president has made crystal clear on Sept. 25th that he had no intention of imposing the Muslim ban.  He has made crystal clear that Muslims in this country are great Americans and there are many, many Muslim countries who love this country and he has praised Islam as one of the great countries of the world.  Mr. Francisco said that Mr. Trump had already effectively disclaimed his earlier statements about banning Muslims. Adam Liptak covers the United States Supreme Court and writes "Sidebar," a column on legal developments. A graduate of Yale Law School, he practiced law for 14 years before joining The Times in 2002.@adamliptak•Facebook Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
