Advertisement Supported by By Maggie Haberman The Republican pollster who had planned to split time advising both Vice President Mike Pence and the United Nations ambassador, Nikki R. Haley, on national security issues withdrew from the dual role on Sunday night, a White House official said. The move by the veteran strategist, Jon Lerner, who has no national security background, came two days after President Trump learned of the unusual time-sharing plan between Mr. Pence and Ms. Haley. Mr. Trump was displeased by the move for several reasons, according to three administration officials. “Tonight, Jon informed the vice president that he was withdrawing from coming on board as national security adviser, and the vice president accepted his decision,” said Alyssa Farah, the press secretary for Mr. Pence. “Vice President Pence holds Jon Lerner in the highest regard and expressed his deep gratitude for Jon’s willingness to consider joining our team.” Mr. Lerner will continue in his role advising Ms. Haley and, one White House official said, continue to informally advise the Pence team. Mr. Trump was upset about the move for two main reasons: Mr. Lerner’s background with the “super PAC” that supported Senator Marco Rubio of Florida in the Republican presidential primaries, and his work advising the anti-tax group Club for Growth, which savaged Mr. Trump in ads during the campaign. At least one official suggested to the president that Mr. Lerner may have been connected to extensive opposition research efforts against him. Mr. Lerner has been a close adviser to Ms. Haley since her successful 2010 run for governor in South Carolina. When Ms. Haley was selected for the United Nations role, she insisted that Mr. Lerner join her as her deputy. Mr. Lerner is also close with Nick Ayers, Mr. Pence’s chief of staff. When Mr. Lerner’s new dual role was reported on Thursday night by The Washington Post, several West Wing officials reacted with alarm, saying that few had been properly consulted, and that no one had explained Mr. Lerner’s history to the president, according to the people familiar with what took place. Joe Hagin, a deputy chief of staff in the White House, told colleagues that the simultaneous roles might not even be permissible. And Mr. Trump, told of whom Mr. Pence had chosen, said, “Why would Mike do that?” according to one West Wing official. That discussion was first reported by the website Axios. Several top advisers, such as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, John R. Bolton, and the nominee for secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, as well as the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, were told of the selection, officials said. But, like Mr. Trump, none knew the full context. Ms. Haley’s central role in the deliberations over a military strike on Syria in the last few days exacerbated frustrations among some. Mr. Trump made clear to advisers that he was still unhappy on Sunday, and that he did not want to see Mr. Lerner with a seat at the table in the White House. So the Pence team decided it was not worth pursuing, one adviser to the vice president said. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
