Advertisement Supported by By Maggie Astor Sally Q. Yates spent nearly three decades in the Justice Department, rising to become acting attorney general before President Trump fired her last year for refusing to defend his travel ban. In a conversation in Washington on Tuesday with the reporter Matt Apuzzo of The New York Times, Ms. Yates discussed issues ranging from the wiretapping of a Trump campaign adviser to the president’s interference in criminal investigations. Here are the takeaways. Ms. Yates returned frequently to the difference between public policy and fundamental principles. “Elections have consequences, and I think you have to expect in a change in administrations, a change in party, that there are going to be policy decisions that are made that you don’t think are a good idea,” she said. “What worries me more than any of that is the relentless attack on democratic institutions and norms, and the impact that that can have on our country not just during the term of a Trump presidency, but in the years to come as well.” On issues like criminal justice (she supports lesser sentences for nonviolent drug offenders; the Trump administration doesn’t) and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (she believes its prohibition on sex-based discrimination extends to gender identity; the Trump administration doesn’t), she gave her opinions but offered only mild criticism of Mr. Trump’s course. But when it came to the president’s penchants for pressuring the Justice Department, questioning the legitimacy of judges and attacking the news media, Ms. Yates did not hold back. His interference with the Justice Department — she declined to say whether it constituted obstruction — is especially worrisome, she said. “Through Democratic and Republican administrations alike, at least since Watergate, there has been a time-honored norm that the White House stays completely away from criminal investigations or prosecutions,” she said. And whether or not Mr. Trump’s refusal to abide by that norm “actually has an impact on the decisions made at D.O.J.,” she said, “the damage is done by the public’s loss of confidence that the Department of Justice is acting independently and is making those decisions based on facts and law and nothing else.” Ms. Yates refused to discuss the details of how the Justice Department obtained a surveillance warrant against the Trump campaign adviser Carter Page, citing the open investigation by the department’s inspector general. But she said she had “absolutely no reason to believe that anything inappropriate was done in connection with the FISA warrants during the time that I was there.” Attorney General Jeff Sessions and congressional Republicans have alleged that the department abused its authority when it obtained the warrant against Mr. Page in October 2016 as part of an investigation into Russian election meddling. Last week, the inspector general’s office said it would open an inquiry. Pressed on whether the protocol for such warrants had been followed to the letter, Ms. Yates said that every warrant application “goes through many, many layers of review and in excruciating detail, and folks are very, very careful and serious about that process.” Had she seen any politicization of the process, Mr. Apuzzo asked. “Oh gosh, no,” Ms. Yates said. Around 5 p.m. on Friday, Jan. 27, 2017, Ms. Yates was on her way to the airport when she got a call from her deputy, Matthew S. Axelrod. “After you left, I went on the New York Times website, and you’re not going to believe what I read,” she said Mr. Axelrod told her. “It looks like President Trump has done some sort of travel ban.” The ensuing chaos — visa holders and permanent residents stuck in airports; a flood of legal challenges — meant the Justice Department had only about 72 hours to make a choice, and Ms. Yates said Mr. Trump’s calls for a “Muslim ban” were part of the discussion. “It became apparent to me that to defend this, we would have to advance an argument that the travel ban had absolutely nothing to do with religion,” she said. “And I didn’t believe that to be the truth.” Normally, “if there’s a reasonable legal argument to be made in defense of an executive order or action, the department will make that argument,” she said. “In this case, though, by definition to me, advancing an argument that’s not grounded in truth is not reasonable.” Ms. Yates’s stand made her a hero to many Trump opponents. Her name, Mr. Apuzzo noted, was emblazoned on T-shirts. Politico called her “the face of institutional resistance.” “I did my job,” she responded. “That’s not being a hero. There’s an old Southern expression, ‘You don’t congratulate a man for not robbing a bank.’ I also don’t think that you necessarily canonize someone for doing his or her job, either.” Pressed on whether her fierce statements against the administration, including in a New York Times Op-Ed from which Mr. Apuzzo quoted, made her a “leader of the resistance,” Ms. Yates said she was simply “speaking out about things that I think are troubling.” “If that makes me part of the resistance, then so be it,” she said, “but that’s not, like, a career goal of mine.” It is a time-honored tradition to leave wiggle room when denying that you intend to run for office. So when Ms. Yates said that was “not anything I’ve ever felt drawn to,” Mr. Apuzzo asked, to laughter: “Full stop? Close the door?” “You know,” she said, “I did the ‘full stop, close the door’ a couple times before when I was asked this, and my husband said, ‘Please just don’t say never,’ because he wants me to. “So for my husband’s sake here, I’ll say I can’t see it. I can’t imagine that that would ever happen. For Comer’s sake, I’m not saying absolutely never. But it’s pretty darn close to that.” Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
