Advertisement Supported by Workspace As told to Patricia R. Olsen  We spoke with Monica Auslander, a registered dietitian, about running her business, Essence Nutrition, in a shared office space in Miami.  Miami Cool  I lease a desk in Büro Midtown for my nutrition business. It’s in the glass rotunda of the mixed-use  Midblock building near the Design District, with its high-end stores. The area is gorgeous and just so cool. I leased the space a year ago because there’s not much room in my apartment for a desk, a file cabinet and administrative papers. I also wanted a mailing address different from my home address.  Butterfly marks the spot  Mine is the last desk in a row along the windows on the second floor with the acrylic butterfly logo on the windowsill. I chose a butterfly because my business focuses on transformation and metamorphosis, and nothing expresses that like a butterfly. It’s also gender neutral. You’d think noise might be an issue in this space, but people are respectful. If anything, I’m the one making noise. I’ll talk to myself and say, “I have to remember to send that email,” and so forth. Organized yet whimsical  My husband’s cousin is an artist in Colombia, and striped legs are her motif. I stuck the decal on my laptop just for fun. That’s one of the perks of having my own business — if I want to do something frivolous like this, I can. At the same time, I like things organized; I get upset if they’re not. I also keep a small mirror close by because I can’t have food between my teeth when I’m talking to a client. One on one  I pay extra for 20 hours a month of conference room time. Occasionally I FaceTime with a client at home in the morning, but I also wanted a professional space to see clients in person. The staff at the reception desk greets people and has them wait in the reception area. Then the person at the desk summons me, and I walk the client to the conference room. On the hot seat  Asking a dietitian what she eats for lunch is a loaded question. Büro has two pantries here with a refrigerator, so I might bring leftovers from a vegan restaurant, with some feta cheese and arugula tossed in. There’s free coffee, tea and water, but I often bring my own green tea. Fake food and more  I use rubber models of fat, muscle and food items when teaching clients about nutrition and body composition. The portion sizes are helpful as reminders. It’s easy enough to grab the models from the windowsill and go to the conference room. Under my feet  I keep my personal printer and master’s degree diploma in dietetics and nutrition under my desk. I had my diploma in my brick-and-mortar office in Coral Gables before I leased this space, and it’s here now in case anyone wants to see it. Recognition of service I’m on the board of Jewish Community Services of South Florida and was co-chairwoman for two years. This year they gave me an award for years of service and special projects. I keep it here because it’s one more thing I have no space for in my apartment. Lunch and potential hires  I’ve gone out to lunch with one or two co-workers here. I like that there are people who do things in different industries. I always need marketing work done, and I feel like sooner or later I may hire someone from here. I see them every day, I see their work ethic, and it’s nice to conceptualize a potential vendor in that way. Interview condensed by Patricia R. Olsen. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
