Advertisement Supported by Book Entry By Jonathan A. Knee The pervasive influence of Silicon Valley on our economy, culture and politics is a subject worthy of close study. Two important new books released this week offer startlingly different approaches and conclusions on these complex issues. The contrasting epigraphs that begin the works perfectly reflect their respective perspectives. Noam Cohen, a former New York Times columnist, opens his polemic, “The Know-It-Alls: The Rise of Silicon Valley as a Political Powerhouse and Social Wrecking Ball” (New Press), with a quote from “The Wizard of Oz.” For Mr. Cohen, “the self-proclaimed geniuses claiming to serve mankind” who dominate the digital economy are far more dangerous than the benevolent Wizard because of the overwhelming “collateral damage” wrought as “these leaders pursue their dreams by centralizing our relationships — personal, economic, political.” As an antidote to this clear and present danger, above all “The Know-It-Alls” seeks to “demystify the origins of the harsh market-based values being pumped out by Silicon Valley, which can seem irresistible.” In Mr. Cohen’s telling, the historic ground zero for the pernicious ideology that has fueled the undue influence of the tech elite is Stanford University. Another former New York Times columnist, Leslie Berlin, has become the project historian for the Silicon Valley Archives at Stanford. Her book, “Troublemakers: Silicon Valley’s Coming of Age” (Simon & Schuster) opens with the advertising copy from the iconic 1997 Apple commercial that perfectly captures Silicon Valley’s conception of itself. “Here’s to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers,” it begins before concluding, “Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do.” To be fair, the conflict in visions is less stark than it seems because the two authors are focused on different time periods. “Troublemakers” covers “the generational handoff” that happened between the late 1960s and the early ’80s “as pioneers of the semiconductor industry passed the baton to younger up-and-comers.” Mr. Cohen’s ire primarily targets those “who helped nurture the World Wide Web to prosperity in the 1990s before turning to investing.” One does not have to be sympathetic to a more benign view of the technology industry to appreciate Ms. Berlin’s deeply researched and dramatic narrative of Silicon Valley’s early years in “Troublemakers.” To tell this story, she selects seven lesser-known but influential figures to follow closely throughout that period. These include the first woman to take a technology company public, the first chairman of Apple, and a man who played critical roles in government to create the internet and in industry to commercialize it through the personal computer. Their names will most likely be unfamiliar, but their meticulously told stories permit the reader to gain a nuanced understanding of the emergence of the broader technology ecosystem that has enabled Silicon Valley to thrive. Nuance is not a word that comes to mind in reading Mr. Cohen’s attack on Silicon Valley’s powers that be. The first two chapters are devoted to key figures in the history of Stanford’s administration and computer science department, emphasizing both the university’s willingness to trade off academic rigor for financial gain and its institutional sympathy for eugenics in the early 1900s and, more recently, extreme libertarianism. These underlying themes, in Mr. Cohen’s view, underpin “the Stanford model of integrating the hacker and the entrepreneur.” This model is reflected in staking William Hewlett and David Packard in the 1930s, establishing the Stanford Industrial Park in the 1950s and obtaining a $336 million payout from Google stock in return for granting the exclusive PageRank license. It is this unholy alliance between hacker and entrepreneur values that Mr. Cohen rails against for the balance of the book. Although he pauses for a handful of pages to speak about Microsoft — “If the Know-It-Alls’ values represent a merger of a hacker’s radical individualism and an entrepreneur’s greed, then only one man can be considered their forefather: Bill Gates” — he believes that the negative ramifications “only fully flourished with the widespread adoption of the World Wide Web starting in the late 1990s.” And so beginning with Marc Andreessen, who developed the first commercialized web browser, Netscape Navigator, “The Know-It-Alls” proceeds to attack the character of just about every boldfaced name among tech billionaires. All are found guilty of either always promoting the insidious tech dogma that places no constraints on their ability to disrupt the status quo for their own financial gain or — as in the case of the once idealistic founders of Google and Facebook — having along the way been “seduced by the power and money offered by venture capitalists.” The history that underpins that overarching thesis feels both selective and less than rigorous. Niels Reimers, the founder of Stanford’s Office of Technology Licensing and one of the seven key industry figures profiled in detail in “Troublemakers,” is not even mentioned in “The-Know-It-Alls.” Given the complex negotiations required to secure university approval, this seems like a significant oversight for a book whose thesis hinges in part on Stanford’s supposed unthinking commercialism. And statements like computer science was “still something of an obscure discipline in the late 1980s” just don’t hold up to scrutiny. By 1990, there were almost 800 computer science degree programs offered at colleges and universities, enrolling tens of thousands of students. Although Mr. Cohen has identified legitimately disturbing aspects of the tech culture, he becomes repetitive, and his tone is unnecessarily conspiratorial. He also ignores when the facts contradict his assertions. Mr. Cohen complains about the “PayPal mafia,” former employees who “provided each other with cash, counsel and contacts.” Mr. Cohen finds “something jarring about a group of self-styled survival of the fittest free marketeers committing to a strategy of collective risk and mutual support.” When the Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales is profiled as a contrast to the libertarian fanaticism and raw commercialism of the Know-It-Alls, his inability to raise funding is used to reinforce this point: “Wales and his partners had no rich friends to lean on in tough times.” The narrative makes clear, however, that his problem was a flawed business model, not his lack of access to the PayPal mafia or other venture investors. Similarly, Mr. Cohen does not directly confront the irony that the story of Wikipedia’s ultimate success was made possible only by its free-riding on Google’s powerful — but in his view morally suspect — search engine. The tech industry has earned a takedown book that documents its self-interested justifications for any number of policies that are clearly not in the public interest. Its track record on matters including cybersecurity, gender equality and privacy is shameful. The brief profiles of “The Know-It Alls,” sprinkled with gratuitous ad hominem observations (for example, Mr. Cohen writes that PayPal is responsible for “releasing into the wild a self-satisfied Peter Thiel, a one-man wrecking crew who has been sowing chaos through American society up to this very day”), do not get the job done. Given the profound impact on our lives of the technology industry and the apparent flaws in its current culture, both books leave the reader wondering where to go from here. “The Know-It-Alls” suggests that “Europe provides a model” relying on extensive regulation but, given the absence of any European tech giants of note, this seems like throwing the baby out with the bath water. Although the compelling history in “Troublemakers” provides a number of tantalizing clues as to where things got off track, this is not the focus of the book. Ms. Berlin does not whitewash the aspects of even the valley’s early years that foreshadow the more profound cultural issues to emerge in the industry’s middle age, writing, “It takes a certain kind of audacity to think you can launch a company, much less invent an industry — and audacity often veers into arrogance.” But she doesn’t go out of her way to explore their implications, either. When the founding of Fairchild Semiconductor is discussed, William Shockley is mentioned in passing, but Ms. Berlin notes that he “had not yet fully descended into the paranoia and eugenic fervor that would later mar his reputation.” In fact, his paranoia and abusiveness at least were already well known and, given that these qualities have been recurring contemporary industry themes, would have been worth examining. Similarly, when it’s noted that a key to the venture capitalist Don Valentine’s success was his willingness to overlook “deviant” behavior, some discussion of the downside of letting the hacker culture run wild might have made sense. Silicon Valley’s history is still being written. Both of these books are important reminders that whether or not it is ultimately a story with a happy ending will be a function of our collective willingness to closely examine the sector’s origins to better understand not only the sources of innovation but how the most destructive aspects of the culture were allowed to fester for so long. Jonathan A. Knee is a professor of professional practice at Columbia Business School and a senior adviser at Evercore Partners. His latest book is “Class Clowns: How the Smartest Investors Lost Billions in Education.” Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
