Advertisement Supported by CORNER OFFICE A powerful force in the food business defends a famously frugal culture — and admits C.E.O.s don’t have all the answers.  By David Gelles Over the last decade, one Brazilian private equity firm has had an outsize impact on the food business. That firm, 3G Capital, has been on a deal spree, taking over companies including Anheuser-Busch, Burger King, Kraft Foods and H.J. Heinz.  3G is at once a profligate spender and deeply thrifty. The firm has spent many billions to amass its portfolio of companies, yet is known for its frugal culture, and practices zero-based budgeting, a management method for controlling costs.  3G is closely held, and its partners — including Kraft Heinz’s chief executive officer, Bernardo Hees — take a hands-on approach to managing their investments.  Mr. Hees attended college in Brazil and studied business at the University of Warwick in England. After spending 12 years running Latin America’s largest railroad, he moved to Miami and became chief executive of Burger King.  He was made chief executive of Heinz in 2013, following the acquisition of the company by 3G and Berkshire Hathaway. In 2015, Heinz acquired Kraft Foods to create Kraft Heinz. This interview, which was condensed and edited for clarity, was conducted at the Core Club in New York City.  Tell us about growing up in Brazil. I grew up in the suburbs of Rio de Janeiro, so I’m a “Carioca,” like you normally say in Brazil. My father worked for an American company, a multinational construction company called Bechtel. He became the C.E.O. of them in Brazil. And my mother was a teacher. Were you interested in business when you were young?  The two things I liked the most growing up were always history and mathematics. I always wanted to be able to transform the environment, to do big things, to be with people. What was your first job?  I used to be a tour guide in Rio. I was selling Rio de Janeiro, the city itself, the natural beauty. Understanding how groups behave and how to connect with people was very helpful.  How did you connect with 3G? In college, I got a scholarship from a foundation run by the 3G founders. The only agreement was, when you start working, you would pay back 5 percent of your annual salary until you could pay back the loan. There was no signing agreement, there was no debt. It was all about the shake of hands.  When I finished my M.B.A., I wrote them. At the time, Alex Behring [a founding partner of 3G] was going to southern Brazil to a railroad project, and he said, “Look, why don’t you come spend some days there and see what it’s all about?”  I remember asking him, “Alex, have you read my C.V.? Or my résumé?” And he said, “Why?”  I said, “I know nothing about railroads.” And he said, “Neither do I. This maybe is going to work.” So I went there.  How did that work out? It was a broken railroad just being privatized in southern Brazil, with everything to be done. A turnaround case. I started as an analyst. Two years later I became the chief financial officer, and then, when Alex leaves to come to New York to plant the seeds of what 3G is today, I replaced him as the C.E.O. You were pretty young to be a C.E.O. How did you deal with that? We normally think of C.E.O.s as the people who have the answers, right? I think C.E.O.s are the ones that have the questions. If you can provide the right framework and questions, the consumers, clients, customers, factory managers, supply chain — they have the answers. The important piece is to recognize and learn fast. New mistakes are welcome. But learn from the old ones. And try to not repeat the same mistakes. That means you are not learning, and that is a problem in any organization. Do you think the C.E.O.s of big food companies have a responsibility to steer the national palate in a healthier direction? I think it’s a very fair question, but I don’t like the framework — that you’re going to go one way or the other. I think the most important thing we can do is provide options, so consumers can make their choice. For example, we just launched Just Crack an Egg — that’s a breakfast product. Seventy percent of breakfast in this country is eaten in the car. That’s depressing. But that’s a reality. People have less time, and are under pressure, and have to take the kids to school. 3G is known for extreme cost cutting and significant layoffs. Why have those actions become such a hallmark of your operations? We believe we can create a lot of value for the long run by going through this. The optimizations and the layoffs — nobody likes this. I don’t. What’s important is to generate the resources so you can reinvest behind the brands, the products and the people.  I have made mistakes, but I haven’t ever made a decision that I didn’t believe was in the best interest for the long term of the company. When people say, “You guys are short term,” I don’t understand. It’s our money. We’re thinking in perpetuity. A reader on LinkedIn, Ed Trissel, asks about zero-based budgeting. Why does that make sense? Z.B.B. has been here since the ’70s, so it’s not that Z.B.B. is a new thing. At the end of the day, the principle is to treat the money of the company as your own. Z.B.B. is not a point, it’s not an event. It’s a process. It’s a way of thinking. It’s a system. Can it be taken too far? Your companies are legendarily frugal. If you think that everybody should stay in five-star hotels or fly first class, if you think that perks are more important than a really strong bonus, probably we are not the right place for you. When you make such draconian cuts and close factories, it raises the question of whether  Kraft Heinz is a company that needs another big deal to support itself. Our philosophy is: Never think about mergers and acquisitions as a way to solve a problem. That’s normally very expensive and doesn’t create long-term value. Think about M&A as a way to create a situation where two plus two is more than four. Does Kraft Heinz have a responsibility to society beyond simply making money for shareholders? I think it’s a very good question. We decided globally that our cause is to fight hunger. Our main program is a micro nutrition package that can feed about six meals, and is sent to kids in Africa, Southeast Asia, very poor places, sometimes in America, and so on. We are aiming to do to a billion meals by 2021.  There are many stakeholders. I have over 50 factories. And we’re accelerating the commitments within the communities, and that’s making a huge difference, right?  But all these discussions about a healthy choice and less sugar are very different country by country. What people are discussing in the U.K. is not necessarily what they’re discussing here, or in China, or in Canada or the Middle East. As a global company, we are applying policies that sometimes are behind in some places, sometimes ahead in others. It has been a remarkable journey.  David Gelles is the Corner Office columnist and a business reporter. Follow him on LinkedIn and Twitter.@dgelles Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS
